# Functional RNA predictions 

Noncoding (nc)RNA are increasingly gaining appreciation for playing important roles in normal physiology and disease. However, there is still limited knowledge about their biological roles, expression values and interactions. Insights into the biological roles of ncRNA can be gained through analysis of gene expression correlation with the underlying assumption that highly correlated genes share similar functions. This appyter expands upon previous efforts to predict gene function via gene expression correlation networks to predict functions of many ncRNA. Utilizing pairwise correlations of coding and noncoding genes from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), which contains reads mapped to ncRNAs, and reference gene set libraries such as KEGG, GO, and MGI, the appyter predicts gene functions for both coding and noncoding RNAs.

In the appyter, users will be able to enter a human gene symbol from the TCGA database, and in return will receive a custom Jupyter notebook report centered on their chosen gene, including sorted prediction gene functions based on various gene set libraries from Enrichr and the top 100 most correlated genes with a link to analyze these gene sets in Enrichr. For coding genes, the report compares predictions made via the TCGA or ARCHS4 correlation matrices. Receiver operating characteristic curves are displayed side-by-side. Using the appyter, biomedical researchers can explore possible functions of ncRNAs of interest and generate hypotheses for further investigation.